Initial commit of the development guide (#134)
corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider: DEVELOPMENT-GUIDE.md

It's primary purpose is to check invariants around critical regions and prevent coding mistakes by failing hard if `JNIEnv*` is used incorrectly.

### java_buffer
Representation of any sequence of bytes passed in from Java (currently either a `DirectByteBuffer` or a `byte[]`). This does not give direct access to the underlying bytes.

### jni_borrow
Actual representation of bytes from a `java_buffer`. Due to their interactions with the JVM and GC, they should exist for as short a time as possible.
While a `jni_borrow` exists, ACCP may be in a critial region and thus any use of `raii_env` will result in the process aborting.

### jni_string
Represents a `String` object from Java and gives access to the UTF-8 encoded contents.

### SecureBuffer
The `SecureBuffer` represents a fixed-length array of a type (usually `uint8_t`) which will always zero itself upon destruction.

# About JNI (Java Native Interface)
The [Java Native Interface](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/jniTOC.html) (JNI) is a standard way for standard Java code to interact with native code (such as that written in C or C++).

> The JNI (specifically version 6.0 as supported by JDK8 and linked above) is a core component of ACCP's implementation as it allows us to connect high-performance implementations in C/C++ with callers from Java.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The JNI (specifically version 6.0 as supported by JDK8 and linked above) is a core component of ACCP's implementation. It connects high-performance implementations in C/C++ with callers from Java.
```

Author: Not taking this as JNI has many purposes. This is just how we are using it.

> Unfortunately, JNI development can be tricky and carries with it many correctness, stability, and performance risks if not done properly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, JNI development can be tricky. If not done properly, it jeopardizes correctness, stability, and performance .
```

> There are no short-cuts here except to [read the documentation](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/jniTOC.html).

Reviewer: s/short-cuts/shortcuts

Reviewer: There are no shortcuts here. [Read the documentation].

Reviewer: Can we move this list of important suggested reading closer to the top of this doc?

Author: I'd prefer to keep these next to the relevant material for now.

The most important sections of the official guide are:
* [Introduction](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/intro.html)
* [Java Exceptions](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/design.html#java_exceptions)
* [JNI Types and Data Structures](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/types.html)
* [Array Operations](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/functions.html#array_operations)

## How ACCP uses the JNI

> Just as in many other areas of development, is a wide range of acceptable styles for JNI code.

Reviewer: Missing words? there are a wide range?

Author: "*is* a wide range of styles" or "*are* a wide range of styles"? (I'm genuinely curious.)

In the former case, "is" appears to apply to the singular "range". "There is a range of ......".

In the latter case, "are" appears to apply to the plural "styles" where "range of" acts as an adjectival phrase. (I think that's the term). Thus, it could be reworded as "There are *many* styles" or "There are *blue* styles".

> ACCP has adopted the following guidelines and patterns to make code more efficient as well as easier to review and write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ACCP has adopted the following guidelines and patterns to make code more efficient as well as easier to write and review.
```
and test?

Author: I ordered them by importance, but you're right that it does grate this way. The patterns don't really help with testing though.

> ### Avoid Native to Java calls

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Avoid native calls to Java?
```

Crossing the JNI boundary in either direction is expensive. However, crossing it from Native to Java is far worse.

> For this reason, *all* calls which interact with `JNIEnv` (or, more properly, `raii_env` in ACCP) must be minimized.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, avoid calls that interact with `JNIEnv` (or, more properly, `raii_env` in ACCP).
```

As a result:
* Native code should never touch a Java object
* Native code should never call a Java method
* All parameters to native methods should be either primitives or primitive arrays.

>   (Technically all arrays are Java objects and thus expensive to touch, however this is an unavoidable compromise).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  (Technically, all arrays are Java objects and thus expensive to touch; however this is an unavoidable compromise).
```

2. Java->Primitive Translation. This layer is written in Java and converts from Java objects to primitives and actually calls the `native` methods.
3. JNI->Native Translation. This layer is written in C++ and converts from JNI objects to native or ACCP implemented structures (such as `java_buffer`).
    This layer is also responsible for translating C++ exceptions thrown by the lowest layer to Java exceptions.
4. Native. This layer is written in C++ and actually does the logic. It should rarely (if ever) directly interact with `JNIEnv`/`raii_env` and should rarely (if ever) throw a Java exception.

### Error Handling
Once a [Java Exception](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/design.html#java_exceptions) has been thrown, there are exceedingly few JNI operations a caller is allowed to perform.
What's more, it is easy to not notice that there is a Java exception pending.
So long as you do not interact with `JNIEnv`/`raii_env` directly, you shouldn't need to worry about Java exceptions as the ACCP objects/methods which use them already have appropriate checks which throw C++ exceptions (specifically `java_ex`) instead.

> If you need to throw an exception, it should almost always be a C++ exception and thrown using the `throw_java_ex` or `throw_openssl` methods. (The former is more efficient but the latter MUST be used when the exception is due to an error state reported by OpenSSL.)

Reviewer 2: I've looked at an implementation of a JNI method and noticed that it catches only java_ex. This means C++ exceptions of other types will go to JVM and more likely will kill it, actual behaviour is undefined. So either all JNI methods must catch all C++ exceptions and convert them into Java exceptions if possible or only java_ex exceptions must be allowed. Anyway JNI methods must have the `catch(...) {}` block.

Author: Only `java_ex` are allowed.

I'll add explicit documentation around this.

# ACCP Development Guidance

> Correctness and code-safety is paramount in the Amazon Corretto Crypto Provider.

Reviewer: No hyphen.

> Like all cryptographic implementations, correctness and code-safety is paramount in the Amazon Corretto Crypto Provider.

Reviewer 3: I would recommend making this more direct, remove "Like all cryptographic implementations".

> The purpose of this guide is not to provide all information needed for development within ACCP.

Reviewer: s/within/with

Author: Nope. This doesn't teach people how to use ACCP (and thus "with it") but how to work "within" it and modify its innards. I'll still reword it though.

> The purpose of this guide is not to provide all information needed for development within ACCP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The purpose of this guide is not to provide all information needed for development within ACCP.
```
This guide is designed to ... It doesn't provide all of the information you might need ...

Reviewer: As useful as this is, and I think it's very useful, I don't think this is a developer guide at all. Instead, it's a note or topic that provides guidance to developers. A developer guide would include discussion of the architecture, concepts, examples, etc.

Author: What should we call then then? This is as much a seed which will (hopefully) later be expanded as anything else.

Instead, it is intended to provide a quick introduction to the most important (and ACCP-specific) components to help developers find and learn what is most important.

# Development Principles

> In decreasing order of importance:

Reviewer: Delete. This is typical and expected.

Author: Unlike everything else (which I'll take), I really want to keep this. Principles are not always explicitly ordered and it is useful to call out when they are.

> # Development Principals

Reviewer 3: Principles

1. We must be secure.
    Using ACCP must *never* cause an application to be less secure than if it weren't used.
2. Correctness.
    We must _never_ do the wrong thing or return the wrong result.
    Subtle failures are easy to miss and can cause problems.

>     When something goes wrong we should fail obviously and force the error to be properly handled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When something goes wrong, we should fail obviously and force the error to be properly handled.
```

3. All logic flows must be designed and explicit.
    This means that there must be no dependencies on undefined behavior (in Java or C++).
    (There is a single exception to this rule. We are permitted to depend on implicit `NullPointerException`s in Java.)
4. Testing ensures correctness.
    1. Known answer and compatibility tests are crucial.

>         As we are implementing standards, we must be compatible with other implementations. Both the default implementation from Java and BouncyCastle are considered acceptable alternatives. (They both have had historical bugs and so both are used to work around issues in the other.)

Reviewer: Does "As" mean "because" or "while". Please clarify.

Author: "Because". I'll fix it.

        When Known Answer Tests from standards are available, we must use them. (Some older tests do not yet meet this standard but compensate with compatibility tests.)
    2. Cryptographic error cases must be checked.
        (While useful, API error cases should be checked but for simple type, null, and related errors, it is acceptable to miss some.)

>     3. Different call patterns must be checked

Reviewer: Period.

        Many cryptographic APIs can be called in different ways. These must all be checked.
	  ([`MessageDigest` example](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/Utils.java#L297))
5. ACCP must be fast.
    This is one of the primary purposes of ACCP.
    Benchmark your code, find bottlenecks, fix them.
6. Code should be *obviously* correct.
    A developer should be able to look at an implementation and *know* it is correct with minimal reasoning or justification.

>     By implication, this means that you shouldn't be clever.

Reviewer: I LOVE THIS!

    This principle sometimes needs to be sacrificed to support higher priority tenets. When this happens, we must do the following:

>     1. Isolation of complexity. (So that only a few methods or a single file is hard to understand.)

Reviewer: Can we make these verb phrases, e.g. Isolate complexity?

    2. Testing to prove correctness. (While we must always do this, it is even more critical here.)

>     3. Comments explaining exactly what is going on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    3. Comments explaining exactly what is intended and, when appropriate, why a particular technique was chosen.
```

### NativeResource
ACCP commonly needs to track pointers to C++ objects (a.k.a., "native resources"). To ensure that they are properly managed, *all* of these pointers must be wrapped in a [NativeResource](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/NativeResource.java) object and all use of the pointer *must* be via the `use` or `useVoid` methods. This provides proper synchronization and cleanup of the resources.

### InputBuffer
Many cryptographic constructs (MACs, Hashes, AEAD decrypt, and Signatures) take in an arbitrarily long input and return a single output at the end.
The [InputBuffer](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/InputBuffer.java) generalizes this flow by letting a specific implementation plug in a few pieces of logic while handling all of the buffering and type-handling logic in a single place.
This is useful because properly joining and splitting inbound data has caused bugs in other libraries (as has proper handling of `ByteBuffers`).

## C++

> In general, ACCP uses the philosophy that [Resource aquisition is initialization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization). Whenever possible we will have stack-based objects tracking the lifecycle of heap-based resources. This ensures that when we leave a code-block the destructors will properly clean-up the resources, regardless of how we leave the block. This, combined with C++ exceptions, results in a relatively easy to write/read control-flow while being confident that we do not leak resources. This means that only the top-level JNI native methods should ever throw Java exceptions. In all cases `goto` should be avoided and throwing a C++ exception should be used for exceptional cases.

Reviewer: Whenever possible, we

> In general, ACCP uses the philosophy that [Resource aquisition is initialization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization). Whenever possible we will have stack-based objects tracking the lifecycle of heap-based resources. This ensures that when we leave a code-block the destructors will properly clean-up the resources, regardless of how we leave the block. This, combined with C++ exceptions, results in a relatively easy to write/read control-flow while being confident that we do not leak resources. This means that only the top-level JNI native methods should ever throw Java exceptions. In all cases `goto` should be avoided and throwing a C++ exception should be used for exceptional cases.

Reviewer: no hyphen in "code block," "clean up," or control-flow. Hyphens are required when a term is used as an adjective, such as "top-level," not a noun.

### *_auto

> There are several objects with names of the form `*_auth` (ex: `RSA_auto`) which provide stack-based tracking of the named resource. These should be used whenever possible.

Reviewer: Whenever possible, use objects that provide stack-based tracking. These object have names with the form ...

    By implication, this means that you shouldn't be clever.
    This principle sometimes needs to be sacrificed to support higher priority tenets. When this happens, we must do the following:
    1. Isolate complexity. (So that only a few methods or a single file is hard to understand.)
    2. Test to prove correctness. (While we must always do this, it is even more critical here.)
    3. Comment to explain exactly what is intended and, when appropriate, why a particular technique was choseen.
    Examples: ([ConstantTime](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/ConstantTime.java) and its [tests](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/tst/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/test/ConstantTimeTests.java), [Janitor](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/Janitor.java) and its [tests](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/tst/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/test/JanitorTest.java))

# Important and Unique Components
## Java
### Janitor

> ACCP never uses [finalizers](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Object.html#finalize()) due to significant performance problems. Since we still need to support Java8 for the foreseable future, we have implemented [Janitor](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/Janitor.java) as a JDK8+ replacement for the newer (since JDK9) [Cleaner](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/ref/Cleaner.html). To avoid circular dependency issues, `Janitor` *MUST NOT* depend on any other ACCP resources (directly or indirectly). It must remain entirely self contained.

Reviewer 4: IIRC when I tested Cleaner it had some contention issues that would have made it unusable. It's been a few years though.

Author: Note added that we will need to re-evaluate it when the time comes.

> The canonical exmaple for using `Janitory` is `NativeResource`.

Reviewer 4: exmaple -> example

This is useful because properly joining and splitting inbound data has caused bugs in other libraries (as has proper handling of `ByteBuffers`).

## C++
Whenever possible, we follow the philosophy that [Resource aquisition is initialization](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Resource_acquisition_is_initialization). Whenever possible we will have stack-based objects tracking the lifecycle of heap-based resources. This ensures that when we leave a code-block the destructors will properly clean up the resources, regardless of how we leave the block. This, combined with C++ exceptions, results in a relatively easy to write/read control flow while being confident that we do not leak resources. This means that only the top-level JNI native methods should ever throw Java exceptions. In all cases `goto` should be avoided and throwing a C++ exception should be used for exceptional cases.

### *_auto

> Whenever possible, use classes that provide stack-based tracking. These classes have names with the form `*_auth` (ex: `RSA_auto`).

Reviewer 4: `*_auth` -> `*_auto`

    This means that just because existing code was acceptable when it was written does not mean it is acceptable now.
    Doing this allows us to continually raise the bar on code quality across the project and combat [bit rot](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Software_rot).

# Important and Unique Components
## Java
### Janitor
ACCP never uses [finalizers](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/Object.html#finalize()) due to significant performance problems. Since we still need to support Java8 for the foreseable future, we have implemented [Janitor](https://github.com/corretto/amazon-corretto-crypto-provider/blob/develop/src/com/amazon/corretto/crypto/provider/Janitor.java) as a JDK8+ replacement for the newer (since JDK9) [Cleaner](https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/lang/ref/Cleaner.html). When JDK8 is no longer supported we will re-evaluate `Cleaner` to see if it meets our perforance requirements. To avoid circular dependency issues, `Janitor` *MUST NOT* depend on any other ACCP resources (directly or indirectly). It must remain entirely self contained.

> The canonical example for using `Janitory` is `NativeResource`.

Reviewer 5: nit: typo

Author: Fixed "perforance". Thank you!

# ACCP Development Guidance

> Correctness and code safety is paramount in the Amazon Corretto Crypto Provider.

Reviewer: s/is/are

This guide is designed to provide a quick introduction to the most important (and ACCP-specific) components to help developers find and learn what is most important.

> The purpose of this guide is not to provide all information needed to develop ACCP.

Reviewer: This can be interpreted as "The purpose of this guide is to withhold information." 

It doesn't provide ...

    A developer should be able to look at an implementation and *know* it is correct with minimal reasoning or justification.
    By implication, this means that you shouldn't be clever.
    This principle sometimes needs to be sacrificed to support higher priority tenets. When this happens, we must do the following:
    1. Isolate complexity. (So that only a few methods or a single file is hard to understand.)
    2. Test to prove correctness. (While we must always do this, it is even more critical here.)

>     3. Comment to explain exactly what is intended and, when appropriate, why a particular technique was choseen.

Reviewer: s/choseen/chosen

2. Java->Primitive Translation. This layer is written in Java and converts from Java objects to primitives and actually calls the `native` methods.
3. JNI->Native Translation. This layer is written in C++ and converts from JNI objects to native or ACCP implemented structures (such as `java_buffer`).
    This layer is also responsible for translating C++ exceptions thrown by the lowest layer to Java exceptions.
4. Native. This layer is written in C++ and actually does the logic. It should rarely (if ever) directly interact with `JNIEnv`/`raii_env` and should rarely (if ever) throw a Java exception.

### Error Handling
Once a [Java Exception](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/design.html#java_exceptions) has been thrown, there are exceedingly few JNI operations a caller is allowed to perform.
What's more, it is easy to not notice that there is a Java exception pending.
So long as you do not interact with `JNIEnv`/`raii_env` directly, you shouldn't need to worry about Java exceptions as the ACCP objects/methods which use them already have appropriate checks which throw C++ exceptions (specifically `java_ex`) instead.

> If you need to throw an exception, it should almost alwasy be a C++ exception and thrown using the `throw_java_ex` or `throw_openssl` methods. (The former is more efficient but the latter MUST be used when the exception is due to an error state reported by OpenSSL.)

Reviewer 6: s/alwasy/always

* [String Critical methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/functions.html#GetStringCritical_ReleaseStringCritical)
* [Array Critical methods](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/technotes/guides/jni/spec/functions.html#GetPrimitiveArrayCritical_ReleasePrimitiveArrayCritical)

ACCP generally uses critical regions because they are (usually) faster.
When you are in a critical region the JVM (generally) pins the object being handled to a specific memory location and gives you direct access to the underlying data.
This means that the JVM is unable to do many of its memory management functions (as they require moving objects) and is operating essentially in a degraded mode. (No garbage collection, etc.)
So, when you are in a critical region there are exceedingly few operations you can safely do.
Essentially, all you can do is methods which manipulate your critical region until you get out of it.
It is **extremely important** that you do not allocate *any* Java memory (such as creating Java objects, like a Java Exception), call *any* Java methods (which you shouldn't be doing anyway), or take any actions which may block.

> It is also **very important** that you don't spend too much time in a critical region.

Reviewer 6: "too much time" - maybe you can be a little more specific. Don't spend so much time that you risk delaying GC while other application threads are amassing garbage that needs to be cleaned. Typically it is a good idea to stay below a millisecond of call duration.

Author: Sounds like a good rule of thumb. I somehow doubt ACCP always achieves that right now (as crypto can be expensive), but that's a good goal for us to aim for.
